1161/identifierforvendor andinstance (#1412)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05j-Testing-Resiliency-Against-Reverse-Engineering.md

#### Static Analysis

> In the past, Android developers often relied on the `Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID` (SSAID) and MAC addresses. This [changed with the release of Android 8.0 (API level 26)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). As the MAC address is now often randomized when not connected to an access point and the SSAID is no longer a device bound ID. Instead, it became a value bound to the user, the device and the app-signing key of the application which requests the SSAID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, Android developers often relied on the `Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID` (SSAID) and MAC addresses. This [changed with the release of Android 8.0 (API level 26)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). As the MAC address is now often randomized when not connected to an access point and the SSAID is no longer a device bound ID. Instead, it became a value bound to the user, the device and the app signing key of the application which requests the SSAID.
```

#### Static Analysis

> In the past, Android developers often relied on the `Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID` (SSAID) and MAC addresses. However, the behavior of the SSAID has changed since Android 8.0 (API level 26), and the behavior of MAC addresses [changed with the release of Android 7.0 (API level 25)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). In addition, there are new [recommendations for identifiers](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation - User data IDs") in Google's SDK documentation. These last recommendations boil down to: either use the `Advertising ID` when it comes to advertising - so that a user can decline - or the `Instance ID` for device identification. Both are not stable accross device upgrades and device-resets, but `Instance ID` will at least allow to identify the current software installation on a device. The SSAID should only be used in case to detect fraud.

Reviewer: Instance ID and Advertising ID are not code variables or similar. Please check the re-phrasing after "in Google's SDK documentation,"

```suggestion
In the past, Android developers often relied on the `Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID` (SSAID) and MAC addresses. However, the behavior of the SSAID has changed since Android 8.0 (API level 26), and the behavior of MAC addresses [changed with the release of Android 7.0 (API level 25)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). In addition, there are new [recommendations for identifiers](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation - User data IDs") in Google's SDK documentation, which boil down to: either use the Advertising ID when it comes to advertising - so that a user can decline - or the Instance ID for device identification. Both are not stable across device upgrades and resets, but the Instance ID will at least allow to identify the current software installation on a device. The SSAID should only be used for fraud detection and for sharing state between apps signed by the same developer signing key (both on Android 8.0 (API level 26) and higher).
```

Author: Irestructured it a bit more

Google recommends not using these identifiers unless the application is at a high risk.

> For pre-Android c devices, you can request the serial as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Android devices before Android 8.0 (API level 26), you can request the serial as follows:
```

  String SSAID = Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID;
```

> The behavior of the SSAID has changed since Android 8.0 (API level 26), and the behavior of MAC addresses [changed with the release of Android N](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). In addition, there are [new recommendations](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation") for identifiers in Google's SDK documentation. Because of this new behavior, we recommend that developers not rely on the SSAID alone. The identifier has become less stable. For example, the SSAID may change after a factory reset or when the app is reinstalled after the upgrade to Android 8.0 (API level 26). There are devices that have the same `ANDROID_ID` and/or have an `ANDROID_ID` that can be overridden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of the SSAID and the behavior of MAC addresses [has changed since Android 8.0 (API level 26)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "
Changes to Device Identifiers in Android O "). In addition, there are [new recommendations](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation") for identifiers in Google's SDK documentation. Because of this new behavior, we recommend that developers not rely on the SSAID alone. The identifier has become less stable. For example, the SSAID may change after a factory reset or when the app is reinstalled after the upgrade to Android 8.0 (API level 26). There are devices that have the same `ANDROID_ID` and/or have an `ANDROID_ID` that can be overridden.
```

Author: I restructured it a bit differenlty :)

  String SSAID = Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID;
```

> The behavior of the SSAID has changed since Android 8.0 (API level 26), and the behavior of MAC addresses [changed with the release of Android N](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). In addition, there are [new recommendations](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation") for identifiers in Google's SDK documentation. Because of this new behavior, we recommend that developers not rely on the SSAID alone. The identifier has become less stable. For example, the SSAID may change after a factory reset or when the app is reinstalled after the upgrade to Android 8.0 (API level 26). There are devices that have the same `ANDROID_ID` and/or have an `ANDROID_ID` that can be overridden.

Author: 1: it is regarding the MAC address as well, made sure that the part referrng to it is updated given android 6 changes in wifi-adress being 02:00:00:00 unless permission is declared in androidmanifest
2.: is changed: android O is Android 8.0, so that is fixed: note this is outdate

  - `Build.SERIAL` without `Build.getSerial`
  - `htc.camera.sensor.front_SN` for HTC devices
  - `persist.service.bdroid.bdadd`

>   - `Settings.Secure.bluetooth_address` or `WifiInfo.getMacAddress();` from `WifiManager`, unless the system permission `LOCAL_MAC_ADDRESS` is enabled in the manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `Settings.Secure.bluetooth_address` or `WifiInfo.getMacAddress` from `WifiManager`, unless the system permission `LOCAL_MAC_ADDRESS` is enabled in the manifest.
```
